pnc-ui/README.md, before:

# PNC - UI 

### Setting Up The Development Environment

Pre-reqs:

* Node.js - [Download Here](http://nodejs.org/)
* Bower( version >= 0.9.1 ) - [Download Here](http://bower.io/)

Once the pre-reqs have been taken care of, run:

    npm install -g grunt-cli bower
    
    npm install

    bower install


Run:

    grunt initRestConfig

This task will create a file `rest-config.json` with default values:

    {
        "endpointsLocalhost": "localhost",
        "endpointsCIServer": "localhost"
    };
    
`endpointsLocalhost` points to a local installation of PNC application, while `endpointsCIServer` points to a remote installation of PNC application (defaults to PNC CI environment). This is useful if you want to develop UI without having a local installation of PNC, as you would consume REST endpoints from the remote installation.

To run consuming REST endpoints from the local installation (`endpointsLocalhost` value):

    grunt serve


To run consuming REST endpoints from the remote installation (`endpointsCIServer` value):

    grunt serve --target=CIEndpoints 

    
Now everytime you save a file (html, css, js), Grunt is watching and will copy to configured directories, performing a livereload.

_note: To make the consuming of remote REST endpoints working without incurring in the Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) restriction, the `grunt-connect-proxy` has been used. Basically, all the request sent to `/pnc-web/rest` are proxied to `<endpointsLocalhost>`:`8080` (or `<endpointsCIServer>`:`8080`), while letting the browser think that they are all in the right domain._


### Generate distribution

To create a distribution in `pnc-ui/dist/` directory:

    grunt dist
    
In order to create a WAR application, go into `../pnc-web/` folder and run Maven build:

    cd ../pnc-web/
    mvn clean install
    
Similarly, in order to create the full EAR application, go into the root path of PNC and run Maven build:

    cd ../
    mvn clean install

### Cleaning the PNC UI build

For sake of quick development turnaround, the `$ mvn clean` will clean just `dist/` and `.tmp/` build directories, but some frontend build related directories will be still cached (`node/`, `node_modules/`, `app/bower_components/`, `.build-tmp`). In order to clean all build related caches, execute:

    mvn clean install -Dfrontend.clean.force


### Managing NPM packages

The versions of packages listed in `package.json` and their transitive dependencies has to be locked down leveraging [NPM Shrinkwrap tool](http://blog.nodejs.org/2012/02/27/managing-node-js-dependencies-with-shrinkwrap/) (standard part of NPM distribution).

Use of [semantic versioning](https://github.com/npm/node-semver) in NPM makes Node module versions resolution in `package.json` undeterministic. `npm-shrinkwrap.json` is an equivalent of `package.json` that locks down all the transitive dependencies.

#### Use of shrink-wrapped NPM configuration

For final user, nothing changes:

    npm install

You just need to be aware that `npm-shrinkwrap.json` configuration takes precedence.

#### Upgrading dependencies

The biggest change comes with changing dependency versions, since simple change of `package.json` won't have any effect. In order to upgrade a package, you can use approach like following one:

    $ npm install <package>@<version> --save--dev

Test the build to verify that the new versions work as expected

To lock down version again:

    $ npm shrinkwrap --dev
    $ git add package.json npm-shrinkwrap.json
    $ git commit -m "upgrading <package> to <version>"

Alternatively, you can remove `npm-shrinkwrap.json` and generate a new one.

### Build errors

The `frontend-maven-plugin` build may suffer from inconsistent downloads when you killed the previous build prematurely. This typically leads to such errors:

    [INFO] --- frontend-maven-plugin:0.0.16:grunt (grunt build) @ unifiedpush-admin-ui ---
    [INFO] Running 'grunt dist --no-color'
    [INFO] module.js:340
    [INFO]     throw err;
    [INFO]           ^
    [INFO] Error: Cannot find module 'findup-sync'

or

    [INFO] --- frontend-maven-plugin:0.0.16:npm (npm install) @ unifiedpush-admin-ui ---
    [INFO] Running 'npm install --color=false'
    [INFO] npm ERR! cb() never called!
    [INFO] npm ERR! not ok code 0

The build currently can't recover itself from these error.

In order to fix this issue, you should fully clean the `pnc-ui/` build resources:

    mvn clean install -Dfrontend.clean.force

Commit message:

Added section for Grunt watch ENOSPC error

pnc-ui/README.md, after:

# PNC - UI 

### Setting Up The Development Environment

Pre-reqs:

* Node.js - [Download Here](http://nodejs.org/)
* Bower( version >= 0.9.1 ) - [Download Here](http://bower.io/)

Once the pre-reqs have been taken care of, run:

    npm install -g grunt-cli bower
    
    npm install

    bower install


Run:

    grunt initRestConfig

This task will create a file `rest-config.json` with default values:

    {
        "endpointsLocalhost": "localhost",
        "endpointsCIServer": "localhost"
    };
    
`endpointsLocalhost` points to a local installation of PNC application, while `endpointsCIServer` points to a remote installation of PNC application (defaults to PNC CI environment). This is useful if you want to develop UI without having a local installation of PNC, as you would consume REST endpoints from the remote installation.

To run consuming REST endpoints from the local installation (`endpointsLocalhost` value):

    grunt serve


To run consuming REST endpoints from the remote installation (`endpointsCIServer` value):

    grunt serve --target=CIEndpoints 

    
Now everytime you save a file (html, css, js), Grunt is watching and will copy to configured directories, performing a livereload.

_note: To make the consuming of remote REST endpoints working without incurring in the Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) restriction, the `grunt-connect-proxy` has been used. Basically, all the request sent to `/pnc-web/rest` are proxied to `<endpointsLocalhost>`:`8080` (or `<endpointsCIServer>`:`8080`), while letting the browser think that they are all in the right domain._


#### Grunt watch ENOSPC error

The system has a limit to how many files can be watched by a user. You can run out of watches pretty quickly if you have Grunt running with other programs like Dropbox. This command increases the maximum amount of watches a user can have (refer to http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16748737/grunt-watch-error-waiting-fatal-error-watch-enospc):

    echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p

_note: For Arch Linux add `fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288` to `/etc/sysctl.d/99-sysctl.conf` and then execute `sysctl --system`. This will also persist across reboots_

### Generate distribution

To create a distribution in `pnc-ui/dist/` directory:

    grunt dist
    
In order to create a WAR application, go into `../pnc-web/` folder and run Maven build:

    cd ../pnc-web/
    mvn clean install
    
Similarly, in order to create the full EAR application, go into the root path of PNC and run Maven build:

    cd ../
    mvn clean install

### Cleaning the PNC UI build

For sake of quick development turnaround, the `$ mvn clean` will clean just `dist/` and `.tmp/` build directories, but some frontend build related directories will be still cached (`node/`, `node_modules/`, `app/bower_components/`, `.build-tmp`). In order to clean all build related caches, execute:

    mvn clean install -Dfrontend.clean.force


### Managing NPM packages

The versions of packages listed in `package.json` and their transitive dependencies has to be locked down leveraging [NPM Shrinkwrap tool](http://blog.nodejs.org/2012/02/27/managing-node-js-dependencies-with-shrinkwrap/) (standard part of NPM distribution).

Use of [semantic versioning](https://github.com/npm/node-semver) in NPM makes Node module versions resolution in `package.json` undeterministic. `npm-shrinkwrap.json` is an equivalent of `package.json` that locks down all the transitive dependencies.

#### Use of shrink-wrapped NPM configuration

For final user, nothing changes:

    npm install

You just need to be aware that `npm-shrinkwrap.json` configuration takes precedence.

#### Upgrading dependencies

The biggest change comes with changing dependency versions, since simple change of `package.json` won't have any effect. In order to upgrade a package, you can use approach like following one:

    $ npm install <package>@<version> --save--dev

Test the build to verify that the new versions work as expected

To lock down version again:

    $ npm shrinkwrap --dev
    $ git add package.json npm-shrinkwrap.json
    $ git commit -m "upgrading <package> to <version>"

Alternatively, you can remove `npm-shrinkwrap.json` and generate a new one.

### Build errors

The `frontend-maven-plugin` build may suffer from inconsistent downloads when you killed the previous build prematurely. This typically leads to such errors:

    [INFO] --- frontend-maven-plugin:0.0.16:grunt (grunt build) @ unifiedpush-admin-ui ---
    [INFO] Running 'grunt dist --no-color'
    [INFO] module.js:340
    [INFO]     throw err;
    [INFO]           ^
    [INFO] Error: Cannot find module 'findup-sync'

or

    [INFO] --- frontend-maven-plugin:0.0.16:npm (npm install) @ unifiedpush-admin-ui ---
    [INFO] Running 'npm install --color=false'
    [INFO] npm ERR! cb() never called!
    [INFO] npm ERR! not ok code 0

The build currently can't recover itself from these error.

In order to fix this issue, you should fully clean the `pnc-ui/` build resources:

    mvn clean install -Dfrontend.clean.force
